Mutation test is a method which is widely used in order to evaluate effectiveness of test sets in hardware and software tests or to design new software tests. In the mutation test, the original model is systematically mutated using certain error assumptions. Mutation test is based on well defined mutation operators which imitate typical programming errors or which form highly successful tests. The success of test sets is determined by the rate of killing mutants created through mutation operators. Due to the reason that number of mutants is too much in the mutation test, calculation cost increases in the testing of finite state machines (FSM). Under the assumption that each mutant is of equal value, random selection can be a practical method of mutant reduction. However, in this study it has been assumed that each mutant does not have an equal value. Starting from this point of view, a new mutant reduction method has been proposed by using the centric criteria in the social network analysis. It has been assumed that the central regions being selected within this frame are the regions from where test sets pass the most. In order to evaluate the proposed method, besides the feature of detecting all probable failures relating with the model, W method being widely used has been preferred. Random and proposed mutant reduction methods have been  compared with respect to their success by using test sets. As a result of the evaluations it has been found out that mutants being selected as per the proposed reduction technique revealed higher success performance. Besides, it has been observed that the proposed method reduced the cost of mutation analysis.
